1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

  1. Insert a paper filter into the filter holder compartment.
  2. Add coffee grounds into the filter.
  3. Pour filtered or bottled water into reservoir.
  4. Turn on the coffee maker and let it brew.
  5. Turn off the coffee maker.
  6. Remove and discard the paper filter with left over coffee grounds.
  7. Remove pot and serve the coffee.

  Washing dishes;
  1. Rinse dirty dishes under warm water to remove excess food
  2. Open dishwasher
  3. Pack cups, bowls, and pots on top shelf
  4. Pack plates, utensils, knives, and pans in bottom shelf
  5. Pour dishwashing powder into soap reservoir
  6. Close dishwasher
  7. Press start
  8. Once dishwasher has finished its cycle, unload dishes.
  9. Dry them with a towel
  10. Pack cups, bowls, and plates into shelves
  11. Pack pots and pans to bottom shelves
  12. Pack utensils and knives into drawers
  A choice of your own.

  Brushing your teeth;
  1. Wet toothbrush by running under warm water.
  2. Hold toothbrush flat in dominant hand.
  2. With other hand, squeeze a pea size of toothpaste onto toothbrush.
  3. Start scrubbing teeth in a circular motion using dominant hand.
  4. Keep scrubbing until all surfaces of all teeth have been cleaned.
  5. Rinse mouth twice with lukewarm water.
  6. Run toothbrush under warm water to rinse off toothpaste.
  7. Set toothbrush to dry.
  Making coffee;

2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

  1. UPS - Their telematics and algorithms saves drivers 85 million miles a year and annual savings of $2.55 billion.
  2. Tesla - use artificial intelligence to develop self-driving cars.
  3. Facebook - Uses the Facebook algorithm in news feeds to arrange posts according to how likely the user would be to interact with the content.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

  An efficient algorithm has a sequence of logical steps, accomplish a goal, and have a finite amount of time to complete. An inefficient algorithm has steps that are hard to follow, don't have a goal, and take an infinite time to complete.
